[Meteor 3] - Migration Guide (#13056)
meteor/meteor: v3-docs/v3-migration-docs/breaking-changes/index.md

# Breaking changes

## MongoDB Methods in the server

As mentioned in the [overview](../index.md#mongo-methods-server) `insert`, `update`,
 `remove`, `find`, `findOne`, `upsert` methods no longer work in the server.

You should migrate to use their `Async` counterparts.

```js
const docs = MyCollection.find({ _id: '123' }).fetch(); // [!code error] This will not work in the server
const doc = MyCollection.findOne({ _id: '123' }); // [!code error] This will not work in the server

// in Meteor 3.x you should use the Async methods

const docs = await MyCollection.find({ _id: '123' }).fetchAsync(); // [!code highlight] This will work in the server
const doc = await MyCollection.findOneAsync({ _id: '123' }); // [!code highlight] This will work in the server

```

## CLI

> 

Reviewer: Instead of directing users to other links, let's explain here the reason why Vue 2 is no longer supported.

The `--vue2` flag is no longer available. We droped support for vue2.
You can see more information in this [PR](https://github.com/meteor/meteor/pull/13065)

## Node v20

Meteor 3.0 is now using Node v20. This means that if you have any dependencies or usages
of Node v14, you will need to update them to be compatible with Node v20.

## NPM Installer

> 

Reviewer: Please add a note about the motivation behind changing the installer. I think we added them to the release notes of beta 7.

The npm installer has changed a bit. Now you can install Meteor using the following command:

```bash
npx meteor
```

or

```bash
npx meteor@<version>
```

You should be using a node version >= 20.0.0, if you use in your CI/CD you should update it to use the latest version of Node.

## Call x CallAsync

> ::: tip TL;DR

Reviewer: TL;DR is used to summarize a long text, but it may not be necessary for short texts like this one.

You can check [call x callAsync](./call-x-callAsync.md) page for a full overview.

:::

Due to how meteor now works with `async/await`, you should use `callAsync` instead of `call` in your methods.

> In Meteor 2x this was a common pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Meteor 2.x this was a common pattern:
```

```js
import { Meteor } from 'meteor/meteor'

Meteor.methods({
  async getAllData() {
    return await MyCollection.find().fetch(); //  [!code error]
  },
  async otherMethod() {
    return await MyCollection.find().fetch(); //  [!code error]
  }
});

Meteor.call('getAllData') // [!code error]
Meteor.call('otherMethod') // [!code error]

```

Now in Meteor 3.x it should become:

```js
import { Meteor } from 'meteor/meteor'

Meteor.methods({
  async getAllData() {
    return await MyCollection.find().fetchAsync(); //  [!code highlight]
  },
  async otherMethod() {
    return await MyCollection.find().fetchAsync(); //  [!code highlight]
  }
});

await Meteor.callAsync('getAllData') // [!code highlight]
await Meteor.callAsync('otherMethod') // [!code highlight]

```

## Changes in Webapp

> ::: tip TL;DR

Reviewer: TL;DR is used to summarize a long text, but it may not be necessary for short texts like this one.

WebApp.handlers.get('/hello', (req, res) => {
  res.send('Hello World');
});

```
Changed engine from connect to express and changed api naming to match express. See below:
  - `WebApp.connectHandlers.use(middleware)` is now `WebApp.handlers.use(middleware)`
  - `WebApp.rawConnectHandlers.use(middleware)` is now `WebApp.rawHandlers.use(middleware)`
  - `WebApp.connectApp` is now `WebApp.expressApp`

A few methods from WebApp internals are now async:

  - `WebAppInternals.reloadClientPrograms()`
  - `WebAppInternals.pauseClient()`
  - `WebAppInternals.generateClientProgram()`
  - `WebAppInternals.generateBoilerplate()`
  - `WebAppInternals.setInlineScriptsAllowed()`
  - `WebAppInternals.enableSubresourceIntegrity()`
  - `WebAppInternals.setBundledJsCssUrlRewriteHook()`
  - `WebAppInternals.setBundledJsCssPrefix()`
  - `WebAppInternals.getBoilerplate`

## Meteor.userAsync

You should use `Meteor.userAsync` instead of `Meteor.user` in your code, especially if you
want isomorphism or want to get your user in the server.

```js
// Before
const user = Meteor.user(); // [!code error]
// After
const user = await Meteor.userAsync(); // [!code highlight]

```

> ## Community migration guides

Reviewer: I suggest moving the "Community migration guides" reference from the "Breaking Changes" section to the Overview section or creating a new section specifically for external links.

Creating a new section we could add blog posts and videos on migrating projects to Meteor 3.0.
